# GCRF

## Summary
The most effective way of reducing levels of poverty in developing countries is through their continued economic development, which leads to increased levels of income per person. Research has shown that one of the main ways of achieving this is through maintained increases in levels of productivity (defined as output per hour worked) within businesses and organisations. For an upper-middle income economy such as Thailand's, productivity growth will increasingly rely on innovation, which today requires access to high-tech skills. With more and more Thai industries collecting data on their customers, production lines, distribution networks, stock prices, etc., one of the most crucially needed high-tech skills is the ability to handle large amounts of digital data. Our ongoing project aims to provide such skills for businesses and organisations across Thailand, especially those regions outside Bangkok which have traditionally suffered from weaker economical growth. The first step in this project -- for which we received Newton funding -- was to use large astronomical datasets to expose Thai data scientists and their postgraduate students to "Big Data". This was followed by a GCRF Foundation Award to facilitate working with five pre-selected regional businesses and organisations, during which we worked with undergraduate students to researched how we can adapt the technologies and skills we have developed to meet their data handling and analysis needs of these external partners. Following the success of our Foundation Award project, we now request GCRF funds to support the expansion of the project to include larger partners with a more national presence, which will provide MFU with the exposure needed to become a self-sustaning hub for data science research and training within Northern Thailand.  

## Objectives
The primary objective of the proposed research is to determine how the data handling and analysis skills and technologies we have developed through analysing astronomical data can be adapted to the needs of local Thai businesses and organisations. Our aim in doing so is to increase the productivity of those external partners, thereby having real impact on the local economy. We also see capacity building as a major objective of the research. This is in terms of the Thai and UK team members gaining experience of working closely with external partners, developing skills and knowledge that will be valuable for sustaining current and establishing future external collaborations. A major objective is to work with MFU students and other trainees (including school pupils and employees) to share the knowledge we gain through our collaborations with external partners to help closing the high-tech skills gap within Thailand.

## Academic beneficiaries
Data scientists in Thailand will benefit from gaining exposure to a more varied range of large datasets, including those collected for commercial reasons. They will also benefit from researching new ways of databasing and analysing this data. The UK astronomer PI will benefit from learning and researching new ways to analyse large digital datasets. Such skills will become increasingly important for his research as astronomy continues its progression to a "Big Data" science with the forthcoming LSST and SKA, for example. 

